[No Music]
[Music]
What is an invoice?
Invoice is a document
that you give it to your customer
so that they can pay you
for your service or your goods.
But you are a professor and consultant.
Why do you need to generate invoices?
Well...
I do a service for my clients
if I'm a consultant,
and when I'm a professor,
I'm teaching students,
so I have to generate an invoice.
Why not use Excel or something simple
to generate your invoices?
I've tried that.
It's no good, when it... particularly,
when there are many clients,
managing Excels and templates
becomes very very tricky.
Why don't you hire someone, you know, professional
to do these for you?
I've tried it.
I have to give them lots of information.
Not that there's anything wrong with them,
just that I found it to be a bit too tricky.
Professional software?
Good point. I've tried that too.
But, what's the fun in that, right?
So what did you do?
Haa.. this is the interesting part!
I took a software called Emacs Org mode
and with that, I added Python code to it.
I added so many other things to it,
and then it became a really nice
customizable way to generate invoices.
Whoa whoa whoa... Just slow it down, bro.
Give me the story.
Hey. Okay... Okay... I will.
Story.
Uh.. Story is simple.
The client wanted an invoice.
So, I generated an invoice.
It wasn't good enough.
So, I hacked some little bit of it.
I changed every time a new client came.
I had to do it all over again.
I did that. I did it.
Then I got really tired of it.
And that's what led me to all these customizations.
I want features.
So, rapid fire questions. Ready? Yep.
Project management? Yep.
Format customization? Yes.
PDF export? Yes.
Multi-client support? Yes.
Washing my clothes?
Yes... No.
Haa. I was just testing you,
if you're paying attention or not.
Logo and signature customization? Yes.
Multi-currency support? Yes.
Okay, enough talky or it's just...
Can you show me a demo that you did?
Or is it just talky?
Yes, of course. Demo.
Okay, demo time.
Some ingredients for invoicing.
Org mode, of course.
Python environment and libraries for Python:
pandas, tabulate, numbers.
yasnippet package, very useful.
And I use for LaTeX, MikTeX packages.
So, I have a project already set up.
This is what we have.
The project is Teaching 2021
and you can set all this up.
So let's start with the first and foremost.
Okay, so we're going to use
the yasnippet package.
uh.. um.. sorry, the invoice, okay.
This one introduced, it gives you this whole...
generates this whole bunch of code
based on a template.
All you're going to do
is to type out the client's name.
Okay and that's it.
That's all there is to it.
Okay there's a whole bunch of instructions
that you can follow.
If it's for the first time,
use bankinfo.org.
Let's check out what bankinfo.org involves.
Okay so you can copy this template
from my GitHub repository.
It's basically setup of the LaTeX tags,
and particularly this text file,
which is a template.
There's some personal info
for all the details that you want.
Bank information.
You can look at it in detail
from my repo. The tax invoice...
There are some basic constructs.
You can totally change any of these
to your liking.
Okay, so that's bank info.
Go back. That's the first part.
The second part is creating a client name.
So let's look at this setup,
and I have one created already.
So, in order to create this,
all you need to do
is to use the inv-setup
invoice setup for your client,
and it will give you all the information.
All you need to do is type in here
and then type in the client's name,
exactly the same that you see
as the file name.
Okay, client one. And that's it.
You're all set for you.
Okay, so that's what it looks like.
All the address and stuff
filled out here.
Okay. And then the next one
is to use the... One time,
you're going to do the invoice item,
which is the rate table.
So let's do the invoice.
Invoice item...
This is item master.
So here again, another place
where you have to enter the client name,
and your rate table is ready for use.
Okay. So that was...
Now we go to step two,
which is clock table for reference.
Okay. Let's go to the clock table.
I already set up this for ACMEClient1,
and I give it a tag: billable.
Okay. We will see that...
Where have I done that?
Okay, so that's the client, you know,
ACMEClient1 table teaching 2021.
I've clocked it for the previous month.
That's what you will see.
Let's see it again.
Okay. That's... Let's put the instructions.
And then you go to clock table
to generate the clock table for the client.
Okay. So clock table...
This is only for your reference,
not going to be exported.
Here we get a clock table. All right.
So with this, you get the clock table.
Okay. Now go into the items part.
You will see two Python blocks,
which is what the next instruction says.
Go into the python block
and do Control-c c (C-c c).
Go to the control python source block,
second one, and do Ctrl-c c...
Ctrl-c Ctrl-c (C-c C-c) rather.
and then finally come back
to Raise Invoice and do dispatcher
which is exported into PDF.
Okay, let's do that.
First one is... I just run this code,
and it generated this table for me.
Okay. So it has all the details.
Now we go in
the second source code block,
and does all this...
And it has generated this stuff.
Plus, you should note that for beancount,
it has also generated the block for that.
It's all in the code.
You can customize it if you're on Ledger.
You can customize it
to the way you want,
any accounts that you want to change.
It's all customizable.
Here, even the currency symbols
can be changed from INR and Rupees
to whatever currency you have
can be changed accordingly.
I have org-babel-tangle-append code
that I will share in the...
I've borrowed it
from somebody on the Internet,
so I'll share that as well
in my GitHub repo.
Lastly, I just want to share that
you can fill your GST website
with these info,
so you can... You can even put in
as many entries as you want
in your yasnippet.
Customize it the way you want.
I also added a month later
due date reminder,
saying if the invoice is paid or not.
Okay.
So, a few tips to end this demo.
You can customize currency symbol
and currency words
according to your own currency.
I use the European/Indian date format
which is %d-%m-%Y. You can also...
The language is Indian English,
so it will change according--
the numerals change according to the
Indian format. Numbering format
for invoice number is today's date
followed by client name.
That's my default.
You can customize that as well.
Let's try and export this
to the subtree. Ctrl-s.
So that's step number seven.
And there it is,
the tax invoice
for Dr. Wile E. Coyote,
and with a lovely signature as well.
[Interviewer:] Well, that's great!
If I were to try this out, what do I do?
Go to github.com, into my repository.
I'll leave my GitHub URL.
You can download it, use it,
and let me know
how it pans out for you.
[Interviewer:] I have spent
so much time on this.
May I invoice you?
[Scoffs]
[Captioning done by Bala]
[Thanks to Sacha Chua for help with captioning]